my name is Jen Moulton I live in Austin
Texas
I like making jewelry pottery and
leather goods for me handmade goods come
down to at like an heirloom quality
growing up when I was little I loved
playing with my grandmother's jewelry
she was like a jewelry collector and I
always played with their wedding rings
because they were engraved and so I
could see like my grandparents and my
great-grandparents and you know their
history together when they got married
and I think that just stuck with me from
a young age my mom was really creative
she's always appreciated handmade goods
she took us to a fairs when we were
little and like just started educating
us and exposing us to it
took our classes up until I was 18 and
then when I went to college I'm like no
no I have to be like I have to fit into
this mold that I thought was bright I
wanted certain things but I couldn't
find them so I decided to start making
them and friends and family were like I
want to buy that so I was like I'll
starting its you shop for me it was an
outlet at night I would come home from
work and just play around and mess
around and make things I'm a 3d person
that's the way I see things so I don't
really sketch anything out I just like
working in the materials I've been
getting into wax carving recently the
way that you can get wax into a metal
state is through a process called lost
wax casting it's an ancient process so
when you carve a wax like this then you
make a mold and this is the mold from
this ring so what you do is you put wax
in here and create multiple versions of
like this ring for instance if I wanted
to cast a few of these put plaster
around your wax and then you put it in a
kiln and you burn off the wax so that
you have a hollow place where the wax
was and then in a centrifuge you heat
metal up to a molten State
you've just poured the metal and so the
metal shoots in to your steel tube to
take the place of where this wax was
starting to work in pottery I've been
thinking more in a sculptural way
whereas I used to work solely in metal
and just fabricate each piece as I went
along I got into it thinking I would
make displays for when I did shows and
also make little dishes for custom
jewelry but I ended up getting really
into it
so I got a wheel and I've been
practicing here I love working in
porcelain it's really really hard to do
but it's what I've always wanted to work
in but it's so beautiful once it's fired
so this is kind of how it starts out in
the ball this is my mess up scrap pile
and these are after they've been thrown
but before they've been trimmed so you
can see they're kind of like have like
fatter bottoms and it's a little messy
down there
and so I'll cut like little foot rings
and all of them and take off some of the
weight right here so that they have a
better silhouette and a nice shadow on
the bottom
almost five years ago I was working on a
career path that I thought I should be
pursuing and I was feeling creatively
disconnected but also I was trying to
work on something in the evenings and
trying to make it work I ended up having
a huge health issue I had cancer when I
was 24 and that really shook me to my
core as I think it does it makes you
evaluate things and so that year I went
through treatment and I had surgeries
and I remember that the clarity that
comes from like kind of being in that
place of suffering but also you're not
like worried about everyday stuff
because you're like I just have to get
through this so that kind of mental
clarity of just being able to think
really clearly and be really in touch
with like for me it's like my god I just
remember sitting at my mom's dining room
table and my husband Matt he's actually
my fiance then was sitting across the
room I was like Matt when we moved on to
Austin I really have to go out at full
time and try and just give it a chance
he's always been really supportive and
he you know believes in my work and he
trusts me and believes in me too for me
having a health scare so young and
everything that you had planned is kind
of like up in the air and I think we all
at some point go through that where we
have something that kind of snaps us
awake and we're like evaluate everything
and make sure we're practicing it's
important to us every day
I knew that I would have to have things
in place to help me kind of start a new
path this is scary and it's also unclear
so that's kind of where classes came in
for me
rounding out my skill set having
something to focus on and having some of
these from my time on that was forcing
me to like get out and learn new things
and just become like a normal person
again for me I believe it happened for a
reason I feel like I needed something
like that serious to to wake me up
because I really believed I would have
kept pushing down the path that I was on
because I thought I was doing something
right you know no one has any guaranteed
time and so what am I really supposed to
do not what I think I should do or what
I think other people want me to do
you